Skip to main content
Search Statistics

Statistics

Insights
Research AI
Connect New

Daily Data
Services

Solutions
Prices & Access


Industries
›Health, Pharma & Medtech
›Pharmaceutical Products & Market
Explore Industry
Pharmaceutical Products & Market
Currently, the size of the global pharmaceutical market is around 1.6 trillion U.S. dollars. The range of pharma products varies from antibiotics which haven’t changed much in almost a century to the latest generation of gene therapies and individually tailored treatments. The increasing use of big data and artificial intelligence in researching diseases and developing new drugs massively accelerates the pace of this industry.

Especially in 2020-2021, the whole world was watching the pharmaceutical industry. This was because of the ongoing coronavirus pandemic and the call for safe and effective vaccines and treatments to get back to normal life. Medical biotech companies like BioNTech from Germany and U.S.-based Moderna, previously mostly unknown to the broader public, were in the midst of global interest, underpinning the important role of this technology- and innovation-driven industry.

Global pharmaceutical revenue
1.6 tn USD
Largest national pharma market
United States
Largest pharma company by Rx sales
Pfizer
Overview
Industry Insights
Market size
Market segments
Industry trends
Industry leaders
Regional overview
State of the industry
Industry Definition
Industry Insights
Pharmaceutical industry in the U.S.
Top pharmaceutical drugs
Biotech drugs worldwide
Coronavirus (COVID-19) vaccines and treatments
Pfizer
Johnson & Johnson
Global pharmaceutical industry
AbbVie
Pharmaceutical industry in the UK
CRISPR genome editing
Pharmaceutical industry in the United Kingdom (UK)
Top Seller
Report on the topic
See more
Market size
A crisis-proof market
Market size of the worldwide pharmaceutical industry from 2001 to 2024, with estimates for 2029 (in billion U.S. dollars)

Revenue in billion U.S. dollars
2001
2003
2005
2007
2009
2011
2013
2015
2017
2019
2021
2023
2029*
01,0002,0003,000
2014
• 1,064
Further details: Visit original statisticMarket size of the worldwide pharmaceutical industry from 2001 to 2024, with estimates for 2029 (in billion U.S. dollars)

The pharmaceutical industry is seen as one of the more crisis-proof sectors. Today a roughly 1.6 trillion market, the revenue development has not shown any major drops during the last two decades. The economic crisis caused by the COVID-19 pandemic did not hurt the industry too much. However, clinical trial process changes, regulatory questions, ethical discussions, and the accessibility of medicines will be of increased importance in the long run.

Global pharma industry
COVID-19 vaccines
COVID-19 pandemic overview
Market segments
Different ways to segment the industry
Distribution of global pharmaceutical sales from 2016 to 2030, by technology

Percentage of global sales
Biotech
Conventional
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
2025*
2026
2027
2028
2029
2030
0%50%100%150%
Further details: Visit original statisticDistribution of global pharmaceutical sales from 2016 to 2030, by technology

There are several ways to segment the pharmaceutical market. Frequently used is the distinction between prescription drugs and non-prescription drugs (over-the-counter). Drugs can also be divided into products derived from chemicals and products which enhance biotechnology (biologics). When categorizing the industry by therapeutic areas, the top revenue-generating segments are oncology, immunology, and diabetes.

Oncology market worldwide
Cancer facts worldwide
Medical biotech worldwide
Industry trends
Major trends are reshaping the industry
Largest pharmaceutical industry mergers and acquisitions ever worldwide until early 2024 (in billion U.S. dollars)

Target (acquirer, year)
Deal value in billion U.S. dollars
Warner-Lambert (Pfizer, 1999)Celgene (Bristol-Myers Squibb, 2019)Aventis SA (Sanofi, 2004)SmithKline Beechan (Glaxo, 2000)Actavis (Allergan, 2015)Pharmacia (Pfizer, 2002)Wyeth (Pfizer, 2009)Allergan (AbbVie, 2019)Shire (Takeda, 2018)Genentech (Roche, 2009)0501002575
Further details: Visit original statisticLargest pharmaceutical industry mergers and acquisitions ever worldwide until early 2024 (in billion U.S. dollars)

Just as many other industries, the pharma industry is in a steady process of innovation and reshaping. Buying knowledge through M&A activities, outsourcing of research, as well as medical and technologic breakthroughs are just some of the key developments. We see more and more companies involved in personalized treatments and developing therapies for patients with rare diseases. Big data, machine learning, and real word evidence are becoming new pillars of research and development.

Pharma R&D trends
Orphan drug market
AI market in biopharma global size by application
Industry leaders
Not much change among the frontrunners
Leading pharmaceutical companies worldwide based on market share in 2022

Please wait
Further details: Visit original statisticLeading pharmaceutical companies worldwide based on market share in 2022

In general, there is not much fluctuation among the leading pharmaceutical companies. Among the biggest players based on pharmaceutical revenue are Pfizer, AbbVie, Merck & Co., and Johnson & Johnson – all of which are American – and the two Swiss giants Roche and Novartis. Due to the huge revenues through its COVID-19 vaccine Comirnaty, Pfizer was the global leader in 2021 and 2022.

Pfizer
Novartis
Johnson & Johnson
Regional overview
The U.S. is the industry's driver
Global pharmaceutical sales from 2020 to 2024, by region (in billion U.S. dollars)

Please wait
Further details: Visit original statisticGlobal pharmaceutical sales from 2020 to 2024, by region (in billion U.S. dollars)

Almost half of the world's pharmaceutical revenues are generated in the United States. With its life science and technology hubs that guarantee innovation and a market that is paying the highest drug prices worldwide, this is unlikely to change in the foreseeable future. On the other hand, China has suffered a loss of momentum. The world’s second-largest pharmaceutical market saw regular double-digit growth until the mid-2010s, but that has since dropped.

U.S. pharmaceutical industry
Chinese pharmaceutical industry
Japanese pharmaceutical industry
State of the industry
Industry Definition
The pharmaceutical industry is responsible for the development, production, and marketing of drugs used for various types of prevention measures, treatments, and therapies. Major aims of pharmaceutical products are to cure a medical condition, delay its onset, or reduce the symptoms. Many of the larger pharmaceutical companies are not only pure drug manufacturers, but are also involved, for example, in the production of medical devices or consumer health products. Within the pharmaceutical landscape, smaller biotechnology drug companies represent the most innovative part of the industry. Drug manufacturers are often in cooperation with academic sites where an important part of the initial research is carried out.

Health, Pharma & Medtech
Care & Support
Health Professionals & Hospitals
Health System
Medical Technology
Pharmaceutical Products & Market
State of Health
More interesting topics from the industry "Pharmaceutical Products & Market"

AbbVie

Abortion in Italy

Advair/Seretide (fluticasone)

Americans without health insurance

Antibiotic use in the UK

AstraZeneca

Bayer AG

Biogen

BioNTech
Show all 81 topics
More interesting topics from the industry "Pharmaceutical Products & Market"
Biotechnology
Amgen
Sputnik V COVID-19 vaccine
Industry & Market
Active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) and excipients
AI in pharmaceutical industry
Animal testing
Anti-aging
Biotechnology in Europe
Biotechnology industry in Germany
Boiron
Chinese COVID-19 vaccines
Clinical trials
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Limited India
Global pharmaceutical industry
Life sciences hub California
Outsourcing in the pharmaceutical industry
Pharmaceutical and biotech M&A activities
Pharmaceutical industry in Canada
Pharmaceutical industry in China
Pharmaceutical industry in Denmark
Pharmaceutical industry in Europe
Pharmaceutical industry in Japan
Pharmaceutical industry in Romania
Pharmaceutical industry in Russia
Pharmaceutical industry in Scandinavia
Pharmaceutical industry in Singapore
Pharmaceutical industry in Southeast Asia
Pharmaceutical industry in Spain
Pharmaceutical industry in Sweden
Pharmaceutical industry in the Asia-Pacific region
Pharmaceutical industry in Turkey
Pharmaceutical market in the Netherlands
Pharmaceutical research and development (R&D)
Pharmaceuticals in India
Pharmaceuticals in Saudi Arabia
Sanofi
Small and medium-sized biotech companies
Vaccine industry in China
Pharmaceuticals
Antibiotic use in Italy
Antimicrobial resistance in Italy
Coronavirus (COVID-19) vaccines and treatments
Depression in Europe
GLP-1 drug use for weight loss
Health supplements in Southeast Asia
Medical cannabis in the UK
Medication and medical treatments in Japan
Non-prescription drugs in Italy
Pharmaceutical industry in Indonesia
Pharmaceutical industry in Japan
Pharmaceutical industry in Romania
Pharmaceutical industry in Russia
Pharmaceutical industry in Southeast Asia
Pharmaceutical industry in Spain
Pharmaceutical industry in the Asia-Pacific region
Pharmaceutical industry in Turkey
TCM market in China
Views on vaccination in the U.S.
Show moreOther interesting topics relating to the sub-industries of the "Pharmaceutical Products & Market" industry
We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information
Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.

Get in touch
Home
About Statista
Career
Contact
Help & FAQ
Report Bug
Privacy
Cookie settings
Imprint

